# snake-game

## Overview

This repository contains the source code for a simple snake game implemented using the SDL2 graphics library in C. It includes source files for defining the snake, rendering graphics, handling user input, and game mechanics, along with a Makefile for easy compilation and building.

## File Structure
- snake.c: Main source file containing the game logic, rendering logic, and main function to run the game.
- snake.h: Header file including standard and SDL2 libraries, used by snake.c.
- snake.o: Object file created during compilation of snake.c.
- Makefile: A makefile script to compile and build the executable for the snake game.

## Files Description
### snake.c
This is the primary file where the snake game logic is implemented. It handles the initialization of the game entities, the game loop, user inputs, rendering, and other game mechanics. It uses the SDL2 library for rendering graphics and handling user inputs.

### snake.h

This header file includes the necessary libraries such as standard libraries and the SDL2 library required for the implementation of the game.

### snake.o

This is the object file generated by compiling snake.c. It contains the compiled source code in a format that can be linked to create the final executable.

### Makefile

This file is a script for the 'make' utility to automate the building of the project. It contains rules and dependencies to compile the source files and link them to create the final executable.

## Dependencies

- [SDL2](https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL/tree/SDL2)
- [SDL2_ttf](https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL_ttf/tree/SDL2)
- [gcc](https://gcc.gnu.org/) (or any compatible C compiler)
- [make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)

Make sure to install the SDL2 and SDL2_ttf libraries and have a C compiler and make installed on your system before trying to build and run the project.

## Compilation

The Makefile provided can be used to compile the project. Here is the standard command to do so:

``` sh
make
```

For cleaning the built files, use:

``` sh
make clean
```

To build the shared library version, use:

``` sh
make shared
```

## Usage

After compilation, you can run the generated executable to play the game. Use the arrow keys for navigation, and try to eat as many apples as possible without crashing.

## Contributing

Feel free to contribute to this project by creating Pull Requests for new features or bug fixes. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2023 

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
